---
layout: default
title: "Making powerful decisions from the edge"
---

<a style="float: right" href="/v2/blog/2005/08/Vroom & Jago decision process flowchart.gif"><img src="/v2/blog/2005/08/Vroom & Jago decision process flowchart.gif" style="height: 70%; width: 70%"/></a>

[Power to the Edge](http://www.dodccrp.org/Publications/pdf/poweredge.pdf) is a
[fascinating](http://www.ozzie.net/blog/2003/09/14.html#a106) manifesto from
the US Department of Defence on how the structure of their organisation needs
to change in the coming years to better meet the challenges of a dynamic,
politically loaded and loosely coupled world.

Power to the edge is about changing the way individuals, organizations, and
systems relate to one another and work. Power to the edge involves the
empowerment of individuals at the edge of an organization (where the
organization interacts with its operating environment to have an impact or
effect on that environment) or, in the case of systems, edge devices.
Empowerment involves expanding access to information and the elimination of
unnecessary constraints. For example, empowerment involves providing access to
available information and expertise and the elimination of procedural
constraints previously needed to deconflict elements of the force in the
absence of quality information.

Empowering people at the edge to make decisions is great, but (as they explain)
the boundaries on appropriate decision making need to be set. These boundaries
are social and self-inflicted rather than technically or structurally
constrained. The organisation structure may have checks &amp; balances on
decision making, but it is usually too late when these take effect.

During my Organisational Behaviour MBA course I found that Vroom and Jago have
done some [interesting work](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0136150306)
to help managers decide how a particular decision should be made within their
organisation. Changing their flowchart language slightly yields a useful
starting point for decision boundaries at the edge of the high performance
teams.

*Note: Originally posted to my Synop blog on March 23, 2004.*
