---
layout: default
title: "Information overload: Replacing noise with signal is not a solution"
---

Before feed subscriptions, our world was filled with time-intensive manual
monitoring and pull based operations (e.g. web browsing). Push based operations
were normally based on giving up access to attention management tools like
email, making them risky and outside our control.

Feed subscriptions give us a pull mechanism for having information pushed to
us. This is a sublime combination of push convenience using the safety and
control of a pull mechanism.

But, it's important to realize that feed subscriptions do not solve the
information overload problem ([contrary to popular
opinion](http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=navclient&amp;ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&amp;q=rss+information+overload)).
In fact, for many people they will make the problem worse.

Feed subscriptions dramatically increase our control, signal to noise ratio and
ability to stay in the loop. They also remind us daily of the continuous
information flow, forward march of ideas and compel us to stay connected.

Using RSS and feed subscriptions we can fine tune our reading to the weblogs
and sources that best match our interests. Compared to the previous time-saving
method of checking key hub / aggregator sites only, this results in a much
higher average level of interest in the items discovered.

<img src="/v2/blog/2005/08/RSS vs non-RSS average interest level.gif" border="0" />

We are better informed, but far more overloaded with information that we feel
compelled to consume for integration into our [mental
map](http://www.reciprocality.org/Reciprocality/r0/Day1.html).

RSS provides time advantages for consuming individual items of interest. This
is through reduction of discovery overhead, removed lookup and download time, a
consistent interface and reduction of the need to troll through large amounts
of irrelevant information.

<img src="/v2/blog/2005/08/RSS vs non-RSS item processing time.gif" border="0" />

The problem arises because feed subscriptions are so effective at helping us to
find relevant information. Interesting information and sources obviously take
longer to consume that irrelevant ones (which don't need to be read in detail).
So, subscriptions increase relevance which also increases processing time.
Thus, if we discover the same number of items each day as before using
subscriptions the process will take us much longer (since those items are
generally more interesting to us).

<table border="1">
  <tbody>
    <tr><th>Without feed subscriptions</th><th>With feed subscriptions</th></tr>
    <tr><td>Monitoring is expensive</td><td>Monitoring is cheap</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Overloaded with noise</td><td>Overloaded with signal</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Information is hard to find</td><td>Information is hard to prioritise</td></tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The next major challenge we face is
[developing](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=d8570d49-71da-4954-a96f-f1677c22f712)
tools, techniques and acceptable behaviours to help us deal with this growing
amount of high-value information. I suspect that the solutions will grow
increasingly less technically driven and more socially driven.

As information consumers we need to learn to [balance the cost of not
knowing](http://blogs.salon.com/0002007/categories/businessInnovation/2004/03/18.html#a668)
(lost opportunities, etc) with the cost of knowing (time).

*Note: Originally posted to my Synop blog on March 20, 2004.*
