---
layout: default
title: "Holy spam, it's propaganda"
---

Yesterday (March 9, 2004) I received around 160 spam messages.
[SpamBayes](http://spambayes.sourceforge.net/) does a great job, catching about
140 of them, and flagging about 20 as suspect. It only missed one or two "spam"
that are content newsletters highly related to my field which I was subscribed
to without permission or no longer read.

I now trust SpamBayes decision that a message is definitely spam and completely
ignore those. I skim the suspects everyday and use those for training.

Trends in spamming techniques are very clear when you receive this much junk.
While I consider these interesting (e.g. [mixing up word
letters](http://www.mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk/personal/matt.davis/Cmabrigde/), [adding
junk words](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/3458457.stm) to fool the
filters) a couple of recent messages have annoyed me more than most.

Last week I received my first piece of spam art / poetry. A simple poem that
the author felt compelled to send to millions of readers. I could appreciate
the idea when [done through Google Ads](http://www.iterature.com/adwords/), but
was not so excited about having it thrust into my Inbox.

Today, I received my first religious spam encouraging me to find Jesus. This
felt even lower...

It raises the interesting idea however that spam is a very effective propaganda
technique. If you have a cause and want to get the message out to as many
people as possible as quickly as possible, why not use spam? This could be used
for both constructive (Go Wildcats!) or destructive (XXX is guilty - here's
proof) ideas. It's like a modern day equivalent of [dropping
leaflets](http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/iraq/2003-02-12-psyops_usat_x.htm)
only cheaper, faster and bigger.

Imagine if someone decided to start a SPAM onslaught threatening a terrorist
attack? Hard to track, quick to spread and must be taken seriously.

*Note: Originally posted to my Synop blog on March 10, 2004.*

Update August 20, 2005: While I peaked around 400 spam per day, by moving to
Gmail and removing the catch all for Synop email addresses I've cut back to
about 39 with only 1 or 2 actually reaching my inbox each day.
