---
layout: default
title: "Two worlds colliding: Small and nimble versus Big and efficient"
---

## Two worlds colliding

While running
[Synop](http://www.e-gineer.com/v2/blog/2005/08/unofficial-history-of-synop.htm)
I'll never forget bidding for a project in partnership with
[Telstra](http://www.telstra.com.au/).  We'd worked through a lot of the
details and then were asked "Who should we contact from your legal
department?". Given Synop had two employees at that point and we were both in
the room, Peter quickly responded "It's probably easiest to just route
everything through us as a single point of contact.".

Traditionally, small and large companies have enjoyed inherent advantages:
* Small companies are nimble and intimate with customers.  Big companies have
* cost and expertise advantages through economies of scale.

Today, these worlds are colliding and the boundaries are completely blurred.

## A natural change for small companies

Small companies can now leverage shared infrastructure like [Amazon Web
Services](http://aws.amazon.com/) or [Google Apps](http://www.google.com/apps/)
to drive down costs and enjoy economies of scale beyond what even large
companies can imagine. Small companies can use services like
[oDesk](http://www.odesk.com/) or [99designs](http://www.99designs.com/) to
access unique talent and expertise on demand and at low cost. Small companies
can compete for consumer attention in small doses through [Google
AdWords](http://adwords.google.com/) and learn rapidly through metrics avoiding
huge, high risk media spend.

A powerful ecosystem is working to solve these problems for SME's. That elusive
market has offered so much promise yet been difficult to capture and service
until today's models of engagement like SAAS emerged. Expect to see rapid
innovation and adoption in this space.

Small companies are naturally hungry for savings and simple solutions to
non-core activities. Moving to these new solutions won't always be technically
easy, but it will be culturally consistent for many organisations.

## Cultural shift in big companies

Unfortunately for big companies, the changes are more cultural than technical.

Adopting new infrastructure solutions / meeting external benchmarks threatens
existing organisations through giving up control or creating order-of-magnitude
improvements to existing services.

Social media provides big companies with a unique opportunity to build customer
intimacy beyond call center boundaries, but requires fast response and 1:1
service. Internal processes and standards need to change to perform on par with
community expectations. Layered decision making through complex policies will
almost always be too slow.

Finally, the agility and pace of change required will be slower than proponents
expect and faster than resisters can believe. Agility and embracing change are
internal cultural parameters notoriously difficult to alter.

## Conclusion

Traditional boundaries and advantages between small and large companies are
being eroded. Rather than small companies trying to grow up, large companies
will try to reach small company standards for cost and intimacy (also see
[Small is the new
big](http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2005/06/small_is_the_ne.html) from
Seth Godin).

The winners will be those that can iterate change and learn the fastest.

Meanwhile, consumers get increasingly intimate services at lower cost!
