---
layout: default
title: UI Design for Non-Designers - From Models to Hypothesis to Metrics
---

## Agree on a model

User interface design is filled with opinion and belief - something that many
IT teams struggle to resolve (but enjoy discussing at length). A/B Testing adds
science to the field, but is relatively late in the process of application
development.

We need a better place to start when choosing an approach to application
design. After all, our initial designs will set the style and standard of our
application in users minds.

For our team, these three questions usually put us on the right path: * What is
the end user trying to achieve and what is the simplest possible process to
enable that?  * What models or patterns can we copy from respected or
inspirational sites to achieve that process / interface?  * How can we make the
experience consistent with our existing sites / applications? (If the new idea
is better, how do we update them to match? If they are better, why are we doing
something different now?)

## The design hypothesis

All our applications go through a design review process during the
Implementation phase of the [Clarify, Simplify,
Implement](/v2/blog/2008/02/clarify-simplify-implement.html)
process.

First we discuss, challenge and agree on these UI models to be used. This is
only be effective if the application designers have already been through these
questions, asking them honestly and challenging their own design. (Don't just
look around for post-build justification.)

After agreement on these core principles and appropriate changes, the design
review moves into a second phase of optimisation of the current design. This is
where each field needs to be defended, pixel alignment becomes important and we
do everything we can to reduce complexity and increase the aesthetic appeal of
the application.

## Optimisation with metrics

Now we have created our hypothesis of the best possible design for our
application, we need to validate and improve it through A/B Testing, customer
feedback and metrics.
